# gdx-setup 1.10.0

* [Download JAR](https://github.com/JavaCakeGames/gdx-setup-archive/raw/main/gdx-setup_1.10.0.jar)
* [Download source](https://github.com/JavaCakeGames/gdx-setup-archive/raw/main/sources/gdx-setup_1.10.0.zip)

## libGDX changes

- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] Android armeabi support has been removed. To migrate your projects: remove any dependency with natives-armeabi qualifier from your gradle build file, this apply to gdx-platform, gdx-bullet-platform, gdx-freetype-platform and gdx-box2d-platform.
- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] tvOS libraries have been removed. No migration steps required.
- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] Linux x86 (32-bit) support has been removed. No migration steps required.
- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] Requires Java 7 or above.
- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] API Change: Scaling is now an object instead of an enum. This may change behavior when used with serialization.
- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] Group#clear() and #clearChildren() now unfocus the children. Added clear(boolean) and clearChildren(boolean) for when this isn't wanted. Code that overrides clear()/clearChildren() probably should change to override the (boolean) method. [#6423](https://github.com/libgdx/libgdx/pull/6423)
- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] Lwjgl3WindowConfiguration#autoIconify is enabled by default.
- Scene2d.ui: Added new ParticleEffectActor to use particle effects on Stage
- API addition: iOS: Added HdpiMode option to IOSApplicationConfiguration to allow users to set whether they want to work in logical or raw pixels (default logical).
- Fix for #6377 Gdx.net.openURI not working with targetSdk 30
- Api Addition: Added a Pool#discard(T) method.
- Architecture support: Linux ARM and AARCH64 support has been added. The gdx-xxx-natives.jar files now contain native libraries of these architectures as well.
- API Addition: Desktop Sound now returns number of channels and sample rate.

[libgdx.com news post](https://libgdx.com/news/2021/04/gdx-1-10)

[🠔 Back to version list](https://javacakegames.github.io/gdx-setup-archive/)
