# gdx-setup 1.11.0

* [Download JAR](https://github.com/JavaCakeGames/gdx-setup-archive/raw/main/gdx-setup_1.11.0.jar)
* [Download source](https://github.com/JavaCakeGames/gdx-setup-archive/raw/main/sources/gdx-setup_1.11.0.zip)

## libGDX changes

- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] iOS: Increased min supported iOS version to 9.0. Update your Info.plist file if necessary.
- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] Android Moved natives loading out of static init block, see [#5795](https://github.com/libgdx/libgdx/pull/5795)
- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] Linux: Shared libraries are now built on Ubuntu 18.04 (up from Ubuntu 16.04)
- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] The built-in font files arial-15.fnt and arial-15.png have been replaced with lsans-15.fnt and lsans-15.png; this may change some text layout that uses the built-in font, and code that expects arial-15 assets to be present must change to lsans-15.
- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] Legacy LWJGL3 projects must update the sourceCompatibility to 1.8 or higher.
- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] Android Removed hideStatusBar configuration, see [#6683](https://github.com/libgdx/libgdx/pull/6683)
- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] Lwjgl3ApplicationConfiguration#useOpenGL3 was replaced by #setOpenGLEmulation
- \[CONTRIBUTING\] Removed Maven and Ant build systems. libGDX is now solely built with Gradle. See [https://libgdx.com/dev/from-source/] for updated build instructions.
- \[CONTRIBUTING\] Gradle build now takes -PjavaVersion=7|8|9... to specify the Java version against which to compile libGDX. Default is Java 7 for everything, except the LWJGL3 backend, which is compiled for Java 8.
- LWJGL3 extension: Added gdx-lwjgl3-glfw-awt-macos extension. Fixes GLFW in such a way, that the LWJGL3/libGDX must no longer run on the main thread in macOS, which allows AWT to work in parallel, i.e. file dialogs, JFrames, ImageIO, etc. You no longer need to pass `-XstartOnFirstThread` when starting an LWJGL3 app on macOS. See `AwtTestLWJGL` in gdx-tests-lwjgl3. For more information, see [https://github.com/libgdx/libgdx/pull/6772]
- API Addition: Added LWJGL3 ANGLE support for x86_64 Windows, Linux, and macOS. Emulates OpenGL ES 2.0 through DirectX (Windows), desktop OpenGL (Linux), and Metal (macOS). May become the preferred method of rendering on macOS if Apple removes OpenGL support entirely. May fix some OpenGL driver issues. More information here: [https://github.com/libgdx/libgdx/pull/6672]
- iOS: Update to MobiVM 2.3.16
- Update to LWJGL 3.3.1; adds support for M1 Macs
- API Addition: ObjLoader now supports ambientColor, ambientTexture, transparencyTexture, specularTexture and shininessTexture
- API Addition: PointSpriteParticleBatch blending is now configurable.
- TOOLS Features: Blending mode and sort mode can be changed in Flame particle 3D editor.
- API Addition: Polygon methods setVertex, getVertex, getVertexCount, getCentroid.
- API Addition: TMX built-in tile property "type" is now supported.
- API Addition: Octree structure.
- API Addition: Added StringBuilder#toStringAndClear() method.
- FirstPersonCameraController keys mapping is now configurable
- Fix: GlyphLayout: Several fixes for color markup runs with multi-line or wrapping texts
- API change: GlyphLayout#GlyphRun is now one GlyphRun per line. "color" was removed from GlyphRun and is now handled by GlyphLayout.
- Gdx Setup Tool: Target Android API 30 and update AGP plugin to 4.1.3
- API Fix: Sound IDs are now properly removed; this prevents changes to music instances with the same ID
- API Fix: LWJGL3Net#openURI does now work on macOS & JDK >= 16
- API Fix: Fixed a possible deadlock with AssetManager#dispose() and #clear()
- API Change: Enable the AL_DIRECT_CHANNELS_SOFT option for Sounds and AudioDevices as well to fix stereo sound
- API Addition: CameraInputController#setInvertedControls(boolean)
- API Removal: AnimatedTiledMapTile#frameCount
- LWJGL 3 is now the default desktop backend. If you want to port your existing applications, take a look here: ]https://gist.github.com/crykn/eb37cb4f7a03d006b3a0ecad27292a2d]
- Brought the official and third-party extensions in gdx-setup up to date. Removed some unmaintained ones and added gdx-websockets & jbump.
- API Fix: Escaped characters in XML attributes are now properly un-escaped
- Bug Fix: AssetManager backslash conversion removed - fixes use of filenames containing backslashes
- gdx-setup now places the assets directory in project root instead of android or core. See advanced settings (UI) or arguments (command line) if you don't want it in root.
- API Fix: Resolved issues with LWJGL 3 and borderless fullscreen
- API Addition: GeometryUtils,polygons isCCW, ensureClockwise, reverseVertices
- API Addition: Added FreeTypeFontGenerator#hasCharGlyph method.
- API Fix: Pool discard method now resets object by default. This fixes the known issue about Pool in libGDX 1.10.0.
- API Addition: Split GWT reflection cache into two generated classes
- API Fix: Fix Box2D memory leak with ropes on GWT
- API Fix: Fix NPE in Type#getDeclaredAnnotation
- API Addition: Add pause/resume methods to AudioDevice
- API Fix: Protection against NullPointerException in World#destroyBody()
- API Fix: Prevent repeated mipmap generation in FileTextureArrayData
- API Fix: Fix issue with camera reference in CameraGroupStrategy’s default sorter
- API Fix: Move vertex array index buffer limit to backends to fix issue with numIndices parameter
- API Fix: TexturePacker: Fix wrong Y value when using padding
- API Fix: Lwjgl3Net: Add fallback to xdg-open on Linux if Desktop.BROWSE is unavailable
- API Addition: Add NWSEResize, NESWResize, AllResize, and NotAllowed and None SystemCursors
- API Addition: GWTApplication#getJavaHeap and getNativeHeap are now supported
- API Addition: Box2D Shape now implements Disposable
- API Addition: Added ChainShape#clear method
- API Addition: Adds Tooltip#setTouchIndependent; see [#6758](https://github.com/libgdx/libgdx/pull/6758)
- API Addition: Emulate Timer#isEmpty on GWT
- API Addition: Bits add copy constructor public Bits (Bits bitsToCpy)
- API Addition: Added List#drawSelection().
- API Addition: GwtApplicationConfiguration#xrCompatible
- API Fix: setSystemCursor() now works on Android
- API Fix: getDisplayMode() is now more accurate on Android and GWT.
- API Addition: JsonValue#iterator(String) to more easily iterate a child that may not exist.
- API Addition: Added ExtendViewport#setScaling, eg for use with Scaling.contain.
- API Addition: Added getBoundingRectangle() to Polyline
- API Addition: ShapeRenderer#check() has now protected visibility
- API Addition: Add ability to host GWT module on a different domain than the site, see [#6851](https://github.com/libgdx/libgdx/pull/6581)
- Various minor Scene2D improvements

[libgdx.com news post](https://libgdx.com/news/2022/05/gdx-1-11)

[🠔 Back to version list](https://javacakegames.github.io/gdx-setup-archive/)
