# gdx-setup 1.12.0

* [Download JAR](https://github.com/JavaCakeGames/gdx-setup-archive/raw/main/gdx-setup_1.12.0.jar)
* [Download source](https://github.com/JavaCakeGames/gdx-setup-archive/raw/main/sources/gdx-setup_1.12.0.zip)

## libGDX changes

- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] Added #touchCancelled to InputProcessor interface, see [#6871](https://github.com/libgdx/libgdx/pull/6871).
- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] Android: Immersive mode is now true by default. Set `useImmersiveMode` config to `false` to disable it.
- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] iOS: Increased min supported iOS version to 11.0. Update your Info.plist file if necessary.
- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] iOS: `hideHomeIndicator` set to `false` by default (was `true`).
- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] iOS: `screenEdgesDeferringSystemGestures` set to `UIRectEdge.All` by default (was `UIRectEdge.None`).
- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] iOS: preferred FPS is now uncapped by default, see [#6717](https://github.com/libgdx/libgdx/pull/6717)
- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] iOS: `ApplicationListener.create` and first `resize` are now called within `UIApplicationDelegate.didFinishLaunching`. Allows for earlier rendering and prevents black screen frames after launch screen. NOTE: App will get terminated if this method is blocked for more than 10-20 sec. 
- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] Actor#localToAscendantCoordinates throws an exception if the specified actor is not an ascendant.
- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] WidgetGroup#hit first validates the layout.
- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] Cell getters return object wrapper instead of primitives.
- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] MeshPartBuilder#lastIndex now returns int instead of short.
- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] 3D API - max bone weights is now configurable and limited to 4 by default. Change this value if you need less or more. See [#6522](https://github.com/libgdx/libgdx/pull/6502).
- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] Mesh#getVerticesBuffer, Mesh#getIndicesBuffer, VertexData#getBuffer, and IndexData#getBuffer are deprecated in favor to new methods with boolean parameter. If you subclassed some of these classes, you need to implement the new methods.
- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] Desktop: The return value of AudioDevice#getLatency() is now in samples, and not milliseconds
- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] iOS: 32 bit (armv7) builds are no longer supported. Builds must be 64 bit (arm64) only.
- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] iOS: Use dynamic frameworks instead of static libs
- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] optimized Mesh#bind and Mesh#unbind have a new parameter for instanced attribute locations. If you use these methods without instancing, you can pass a null value.
- \[BREAKING CHANGE\] Dropped support for older libc versions since libGDX is now built on Ubuntu 20.04  ([#7005](https://github.com/libgdx/libgdx/pull/7005))
- \[KNOWN ISSUE\] Android drag behaviour. Gdx.input.getDeltaX() and Gdx.input.getDeltaY always return 0 for pointer 0. Fixed on next version.
- Update to jnigen 2.4.1
- LWJGL Fix: setPosision() for MP3 files.
- iOS: Add new MobiVM MetalANGLE backend
- iOS: Update to MobiVM 2.3.19
- Update to LWJGL 3.3.2
- API Addition: Added Audio#switchOutputDevice and Audio#getAvailableOutputDevices to specify output devices. Only works for LWJGL3
- Fix LWJGL3: Audio doesn't die anymore, if a device gets disconnected
- API Addition: Added Haptics API with 4 different Input#vibrate() methods with complete Android and iOS implementations.
- API Addition: Vector2: Added static methods for angleDeg and angleRad
- Fix: Fixed Android and iOS touch cancelled related issues, see [#6871](https://github.com/libgdx/libgdx/pull/6871).
- Javadoc: Add "-use" flag to javadoc generation
- Android: gdx-setup now uses AGP 7.2.2 and SDK 32, requiring Android Studio Chipmunk or IntelliJ IDEA 2022.2 and JDK 11.
- libGDX is now built using Java 11 due to new Android requirements. The rest of libGDX can still be built with JDK 8 and runtime compatibility of libGDX projects should be unaffected.
- Fixed glViewport when using HdpiMode.Logical with the LWJGL3 backend.
- Added Stage#actorRemoved to fire exit events just before an actor is removed.
- ScrollPane#setScrollingDisabled avoids invalidate() if nothing changed.
- Fixed incorrect ScrollPane#scrollTo.
- API Addition: Added Texture3D support
- Fix: Throw an exception when maximum Attribute count is reached to prevent silent failure.
- API Fix: The cursor can now be catched on Android.
- LWJGL3 Fix: Stereo audio can now be played on mono output devices. This may also improve downmixing to stereo and upmixing to surround.
- API Addition: Added CheckBox#getImageDrawable.
- FIX: HexagonalTiledMapRenderer now displays maps with the correct stagger index.
- API Addition: Added I18NBundle#keys() method.
- TOOLS Features: Save mode can be changed in Flame particle 3D editor.
- API Addition: added WebGL 2.0 implementation to Gwt backend : you can enable it by GwtApplicationConfiguration#useGL30
- Added GLES31 and GLES32 support with Lwjgl3 backend implementation
- API Addition: JsonReader#stop() to stop parsing.
- API Change: TextureAtlas now uses FileHandle#reader so outside code can control the charset
- API Fix: Intersector#isPointInTriangle
- API Addition: The Skin serializer now supports useIntegerPositions
- API Change: The skin serializer now treats scaledSize as a float
- API Change: DataInput throws an EOF-Exception
- API Fix: RenderBuffer leak in GLFrameBuffer class
- API Change: Pixmap#setPixels will now verify it has been given a direct ByteBuffer
- API Addition: glTexImage2D and glTexSubImage2D with offset parameter
- API Addition: OrientedBoundingBox
- API Addition: Tiled parallax factor support
- API Fix: LWJGL 3’s borderless fullscreen works with negative monitor coords
- API Fix: Update mouse x and y values immediately after calling #setCursorPosition
- API Change: Never stall with AssetManager on GWT
- API Change: Allow packed depth stencil buffer creation when not using GL30
- API Fix: Fixed DataInput#readString for non-ASCII
- API Fix: LwjglGraphics.setupDisplay() is no longer choosing the wrong display mode
- API Fix: MathUtils.lerpAngle() fixed for extreme inputs
- MathUtils trigonometry improvements
- Various Scene2D fixes and improvements
- Fix: JsonValue#addChild now clears leftover list pointers, preventing inconsistent or looping JSON objects.

[libgdx.com news post](https://libgdx.com/news/2023/07/gdx-1-12)

[🠔 Back to version list](https://javacakegames.github.io/gdx-setup-archive/)
