# gdx-setup 1.9.12

**Note:** This version is obsolete.

* [Download JAR](https://github.com/JavaCakeGames/gdx-setup-archive/blob/main/gdx-setup_1.9.12.jar)
* [Download source](https://github.com/JavaCakeGames/gdx-setup-archive/blob/main/sources/gdx-setup_1.9.12.zip)

## libGDX changes

- [BREAKING CHANGE] iOS: Changed how Retina/hdpi handled on iOS. See #3709.
- [BREAKING CHANGE] API Change: InputProcessor scrolled method now receives scroll amount for X and Y. Changed type to float to support devices which report fractional scroll amounts. Updated InputEvent in scene2d accordingly: added scrollAmountX, scrollAmountY attributes and corresponding setters and getters. See #6154.
- [BREAKING CHANGE] API Change: Vector2 angleRad(Vector2) now correctly returns counter-clockwise angles. See #5428
- [BREAKING CHANGE] Android: getDeltaTime() now returns the raw delta time instead of a smoothed one. See #6228.
- Fixed vertices returned by Decal.getVertices() not being updated
- Fixes Issue #5048. The function Intersector.overlapConvexPolygons now should return the right minimum translation vector values.
- Update to MobiVM 2.3.11
- API Change: Removed Pool constructor with preFill parameter in favor of using Pool#fill() method. See #6117
- API Addition: Slider can now be configured to only trigger on certain mouse button clicks (Slider#setButton(int)).
- Fixed GlyphLayout not laying out correctly with color markup.
- Fixed TileDrawable not applying its scale correctly.
- API Addition: Added epsilon methods to maps with float values.
- API Addition: Added an insertRange method to array collections.
- Fixed GestureDetector maxFlingDelay.
- API Change: Changed default GestureDetector maxFlingDelay to Integer.MAX_VALUE (didn't work before, this matches that).
- Gdx.files.external on Android now uses app external storage - see wiki article File handling for more information
- Improved text, cursor and selection rendering in TextArea.
- API Addition: Added setProgrammaticChangeEvents, updateVisualValue, round methods to ProgressBar/Slider.
- iOS: Keyboard events working on RoboVM on iOS 13.5 and up, uses same API as on other platforms
- API Addition: Added AndroidLiveWallpaper.notifyColorsChanged() to communicate visually significant colors back to the wallpaper engine.
- API Change: AssetManager invokes the loaded callback when an asset is unloaded from the load queue if the asset is already loaded.
- GWT: changed audio backend to WebAudio API. Now working on mobiles, pitch implemented. Configuration change: preferFlash removed. When updating existing projects, you can remove the soundmanager js files from your webapp folder and the references to it from index.html
- GWT: added possibility to lazy load assets via AssetManager instead of preload them before game start. See GWT specifics wiki article for more information.
- GWT: New configuration setting usePhysicalPixels to use native resolution on mobile / Retina / HDPI screens. When using this option, make sure to update your code in index.html and HTMLLauncher from setup template.
- GWT: GwtApplicationConfiguration and GWT backend now support an application to be resizable or fixed size. You can remove your own resizing code from your HTMLLaunchers.
- GWT: Assets in distribute build are renamed with md5 hash suffix to bypass browser cache on changes
- GWT: Fixed GwtFileHandle that was only returning text assets when listing a directory, now returns all children
- API Addition: Pixmap.downloadFromUrl() downloads an image from http(s) URLs and passes it back as a Pixmap on all platforms
- Added support for Linux ARM builds.
	- 32-bit: ARMv7/armhf
	- 64-bit: ARMv8/AArch64
- API Change: Removed arm abi from SharedLibraryLoader
- API Addition: Added a Lwjgl3ApplicationConfiguration#foregroundFPS option.
- API Change: Utility classes are now final and have a private constructor to prevent instantiation.
- API Change: ScrollPane now supports all combinations of scrollBarsOnTop and fadeScrollBars.
- API Addition: Added new methods with a "deg" suffix in the method's name for all Vector2 degrees-based methods and deprecated the old ones.
- API Addition: Added Slider#setVisualPercent.
- API Change: Enabling fullscreen mode on the lwjgl3 backend now automatically sets the vsync setting again.
- API Addition: Added put(key, value, defaultValue) for maps with primitive keys, so the old value can be returned.
- API Addition: Added ObjectLongMap.
- Added Intersector#intersectRayOrientedBoundsFast to detect if a ray intersects an oriented bounding box, see https://github.com/libgdx/libgdx/pull/6139
- API Addition: Added Table#clip() and Container#clip() methods.
- API Addition: Added getBackgroundDrawable() to Button.
- API Addition: Added imageCheckedDown and getImageDrawable() to ImageButton and ImageTextButton.
- API Addition: Added focusedFontColor, checkedFocusedFontColor, and getFontColor() to TextButton and ImageTextButton.
- API Addition: Added wrapReverse setting to HorizontalGroup.
- API Addition: Added Slider style drawables for over and down: background, knobBefore, and knobAfter.
- Fixed LwjglFrame not hiding the canvas in some situations.
- API Change: Table#round uses ceil/floor and is applied during layout, rather than afterward.
- Fixed blurry NinePatch rendering when using a single center region.
- API Change: Upon changing the window size with the lwjgl3 backend, the window is centered on the monitor.
- Fixed DepthShaderProvider no longer creates one DepthShader per bones count. Now it creates only one skinned variant and one non-skinned variant based on DepthShader/Config numBones.
- API Addition: Added Intersector#intersectPlanes to calculate the point intersected by three planes, see https://github.com/libgdx/libgdx/pull/6217
- API Addition: Added alternative Android Audio implementation for performant sound. See https://github.com/libgdx/libgdx/pull/6243.
- API Addition: Expose SpriteBatch and PolygonSpriteBatch setupMatrices() as protected.
- API Addition: New parameter OnscreenKeyboardType for Input.setOnscreenKeyboardVisible and Input.getTextInput 

[🠔 Back to version list](https://javacakegames.github.io/gdx-setup-archive/)
