# gdx-setup 1.9.9

**Note:** This version is obsolete.

* [Download JAR](https://github.com/JavaCakeGames/gdx-setup-archive/raw/main/gdx-setup_1.9.9.jar)
* [Download source](https://github.com/JavaCakeGames/gdx-setup-archive/raw/main/sources/gdx-setup_1.9.9.zip)

## libGDX changes

- API Addition: Add support for stripping whitespace in PixmapPacker
- API Addition: Add support for 9 patch packing in PixmapPacker
- API Addition: Pressure support for ios/android. <https://github.com/libgdx/libgdx/pull/5270>
- Update to Lwjgl 3.2.0
- Update android level we build against to 7.1 (API 25)
- API Change: gdx-tools no longer bundles dependencies to be compatible with java 9
- Skin JSON files can now use the simple names of classes, i.e. "BitmapFont" rather than "com.badlogic.gdx.graphics.g2d.BitmapFont". Custom classes can be added by overriding Skin.getJsonLoader() and calling json.setClassTag().
- Skin supports cascading styles in JSON. Use the "parent" property to tag another style by name to use its values as defaults. See <https://github.com/libgdx/libgdx/blob/master/tests/gdx-tests-android/assets/data/uiskin.json> for example.
- SkinLoader can be used on subclasses of Skin by overriding generateSkin(). 
- API addition: Tree indentation can be customized.
- Fixed GlyphLayout not respecting BitmapFontData#down.
- API Addition: Added faceIndex paramter to #FreeTypeFontGenerator(FileHandle, int).
- API Change: BitmapFont#getSpaceWidth changed to BitmapFont#getSpaceXadvance.
- Many GlyphLayout fixes.
- API Addition: Added FileHandle#map(), can be used to memory map a file
- API Change: BitmapFontData#getGlyphs changed for better glyph layout. See <https://github.com/libgdx/libgdx/commit/9a7dfdff3c6374a5ebd2f33a819982aceb287dfa>
- API Change: Actor#hit is now responsible for returning null if invisible. [#5264](https://github.com/libgdx/libgdx/pull/5264)
- API Addition: Added \[Collection\]#isEmpty() method to all 22 custom LibGDX-collections (e.g. Array, ObjectMap, ObjectSet, Queue, ...)
- API Addition: StringBuilder#clear()
- API Addition: Color#WHITE_FLOAT_BITS
- Table layout fixed when expand is used and the layout width is less than the table's min width.
- InputMultiplexer#setProcessors(Array) now copies the items instead of using the specified array instance.
- API Change: A wrapped HorizontalGroup or VerticalGroup will now size children down to their min size if the group is smaller than their pref size.
- LWJGL3: useVSync() is now a per-window setting. Any additional windows should disable vsync to avoid frames dropping to (refresh rate / # of windows).
- Batch and sprite implementations and SpriteCache store Color separately from the float packed color, since converting to/from float is lossy.
- API Change: NumberUtils floatToIntColor expands the alpha from 0-254 to 0-255, so 255 doesn't become 254 from conversion from int to float to int.
- API Change: Batch and Decal setColor(float) renamed to setPackedColor for differentiation, since the conversion from float to Color is lossy.
- API Change: PolygonSprite getVertexColor renamed to getPackedColor to match other classes.
- API Change: FreeTypeFontGenerator only generates a missing glyph if \0 is in the characters.
- API Change: DragScrollListener no longer requires the touch/mouse cursor to be directly above/below the scroll pane.
- API Change: List#toString(Object) changed from protected to public. Subclasses overriding this need to change to public.
- API Change: List now handles more key presses.
- API Change: TexturePacker ImageProcessor#addImage(File, String) now returns the Rect.

[🠔 Back to version list](https://javacakegames.github.io/gdx-setup-archive/)
